Today’s Watchtower  comments
focus on compassion,
which is an aspect of the quality of love.
Now, you will agree
that we can express our love and compassion
in many different ways to one another,
small and great.
With that thought in mind,
how would you answer this question:
What is the greatest expression
of love and compassion ever shown?
No doubt you will answer,
“Jehovah giving his Son as a ransom.”
And, indeed,
we cannot thank Jehovah enough
for the ransom arrangement.
Now, that being the case,
let us use today’s Morning Worship comments
to highlight the connection
between compassion
and the ransom.
Now, to do so,
we will consider these questions:
How does Jehovah
show his love and compassion
through the ransom?
And how does the ransom emphasize
why we should show love and compassion?
To answer,
let us go back to the time
that Adam and Eve were without sin.
At that time, they had a close relationship
with their heavenly Father.
Jehovah regularly spoke to them,
likely by means of his Son.
However, Adam and Eve disobeyed Jehovah,
and sin overshadowed them.
How did that rebellious act
affect their relationship with Jehovah?
It was as if a wall, or barrier,
crashed into it and destroyed it.
Now, what was Jehovah’s reaction
to the rebellion of Adam and Eve?
It is described at Isaiah 59:2.
Now, although Isaiah wrote these words
many years after the time of Adam,
they describe Jehovah’s timeless reaction
to disobedience.
Isaiah 59:2 says:
“Your own errors
have separated you from your God.
“Your sins have made him
hide his face from you,
and he refuses to hear you.”
Now, the Insight  book explains
that the expression “hide his face”
signifies that Jehovah withdrew his favor.
And that is exactly what Jehovah did
in the case of Adam and Eve.
Jehovah withdrew his favor,
and the father-child relationship
was blocked.
And how did that wall
affect the children of Adam and Eve?
All descendants of Adam and Eve
were born on the wrong side of the wall,
so to speak.
And since no imperfect human
had the ability to scale that wall,
all mankind was left without hope
—captive to sin and death.
Now, if Jehovah
would have left that situation as it was,
he would have acted justly,
because “the wages sin pays is death.”
However, out of his love and compassion
for the offspring of Adam and Eve,
what did Jehovah do?
To answer, let us illustrate
how Jehovah made it possible for us
to be brought back
into a relationship with him.
Let’s think
of the face of a clock.
For the sake of illustration,
imagine that Jehovah resides at 12 o’clock.
And where are we?
Well, since we are born as sinners,
we are far away from Jehovah.
So we can put our name at 6 o’clock.
Now, to see what happens next,
let us read several verses
in 1 John chapter 4.
Note what the apostle John states
at 1 John 4:10, the first part of the verse:
“The love is in this respect,
“not that we have loved God,
but that he loved us.”
And then verse 19 says:
“We love, because he first loved us.”
Now, these verses tell us that Jehovah,
moved by his love and compassion for us,
took the needed steps
to finalize the arrangement
to come to our rescue.
In order to reach us, he made a detour,
as it were, around that wall.
However, as stated at Habakkuk 1:13,
“[Jehovah’s] eyes are too pure
to look unto what is evil.”
Therefore, Jehovah needed to cover our sins.
And as we remember,
the word “atonement,” as used in the Bible,
means “covering of sins.”
So to provide that needed covering,
in 33 C.E.
Jehovah offered his Son
as an atoning sacrifice.
Now, what moved Jehovah
to make that costly sacrifice?
Let’s read the answer at 1 John 4:9:
“By this the love of God
was revealed in our case,
“that God sent his only-begotten Son
into the world
so that we might gain life through him.”
Now, notice the important point.
Jehovah did not only have
a feeling of love for us
but he revealed his love for us.
In other words,
Jehovah provided visible proof
of his love for us
by sacrificing his Son
in our behalf.
Jehovah made an arrangement
for that costly sacrifice
so that he was able to reach out to us,
even to people
who lived before the time of Christ.
So to answer our first question,
Jehovah shows his love and compassion
through the ransom arrangement
because he saves us
despite the fact that we are sinners.
As The Watchtower  beautifully stated:
“[The] ransom . . . was provided,
not because we are worthy,
but because we are loved.”
Now our second question,
How does the ransom emphasize
why we should show love
to our brothers and sisters?
Now, let us return to our clock illustration.
Up to this point, we considered
how Jehovah’s compassion moved him
to reach out
from 12 to 6 o’clock, so to speak.
Now we will consider how we can move,
as it were, from 6 toward 12 o’clock.
What happened at 6 o’clock?
Well, to benefit from the ransom,
we exercise faith in it.
We dedicated ourselves to Jehovah
and got baptized.
After that, we continued
to make spiritual progress
and draw closer to God.
What did we do next?
What else did God require of us?
Now, remember,
Jehovah gave visible proof
of his love for us
by providing the ransom sacrifice.
In turn, Jehovah requires
that we also give visible proof
of our love for him.
And by means of the apostle John,
Jehovah describes precisely
what kind of visible proof
he expects of us.
We find the apostle’s instructions
at 1 John 4:11.
Let’s read it:
“Beloved ones, if this is how God loved us,
“then we are also under obligation
to love [God in return].”
Is that what John wrote?
No, although that is
what we may have expected.
Instead, John wrote:
“Beloved ones, if this is how God loved us,
“then we are also under obligation
to love one another.”
So, what is the comparison that John made?
This: Jehovah gave visible proof
of his love for us by sending his Son.
Now, “if this is how God loved us,”
wrote John,
how should we respond?
We give visible proof
of our gratitude for the ransom
by “[loving] one another.”
Now, think for a moment
about this amazing statement.
Of all the visible acts of faith
that we could have been asked
to demonstrate
in order to express
our gratitude for the ransom,
what does Jehovah require of us?
John stated
that we should love our brothers and sisters.
Clearly, in Jehovah’s eyes,
our showing love to one another
is of the utmost importance.
So let’s return
one more time to our clock illustration.
Where do we want to be today?
By showing love for our fellow believers,
we show Jehovah our gratitude
and we continue to make spiritual progress.
As a result, we are drawing
ever closer to Jehovah
and to the many blessings
he has in store for us.
Eventually, we will again enjoy
the precious relationship
that Adam and Eve lost.
In the meantime,
today we are very thankful
to be part of a worldwide family
of brothers and sisters
who give visible proof
of their warm love for one another,
especially during this challenging time.
And why will we continue to love one another?
Because by doing so,
we show our gratitude to Jehovah
for the ransom arrangement,
which is the greatest expression
of love and compassion ever shown.